#summary embox development roadmap

= 2010/06/28 v0.1.5 =
Start Tercom Summer of Code.

== Threading ==
 * The scheduler supports state of threads:
  * RUN
  * READY
  * SLEEP
 * The scheduler manages the queues of same state threads.
 * Thread synchronization techniques:
  * mutex
  * conditional variables
 * All above functionality is demonstrated by tests.

== Memory ==
 * Code review of previous results (Page_alloc, virtual memory< malloc).
 * Written wiki pages with the justification what is a virtual memory for, and why it's bad to use the method of boundary markers.
 * Virtual memory tests are written.
 

= 2010/05/19 v0.1.4 =
The presentation of results of the student project.

= 2010/05/01 v0.1.3 =
== Threading ==
 * Trivial scheduler is working.
 * A test (or command), which runs 2 threads, one of them wrote to the console "-" other "+". At the console displays a sequence of alternating somehow "+" and "-".

== Manager of memory ==
 * Allocation of memory pages.
 * A test: look amount of memory, allocate, look, release and so on.

== Virtual memory ==
 * Context switching is working.
 * A test for virtual memory is implemented: e.g., 2 functions of the different contexts in turn something written in one virtual address and then verify the correctness of records.

== User applications ==
 * Written application in C, which parses the ELF header file and displays its contents to the console. The result of processing coincides with the objdump.
 * That application is integrated into embox as a module.
 * readelf: displays information about ELF format object files.

== Network ==
 * ~~support for loopback~~
 * support for ICMP
 * ~~ioctl interface for sockets is implemented~~

= 2010/04/16 v0.1.2 =
All tasks are distributed to the participants of the student project.

= 2010/04/02 v0.1.1 =
The presentation of hardware testing tools.

= 2010/03/13 v0.1 =
Time beginning.