#summary Google Summer of Code 2012 Ideas.
#labels Featured

= Introduction =
This is a list of ideas for Google Summer of Code 2012. Read more about participating in Embox as part of GSoC [GSoC here].
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= GSoC 2012 Ideas =
This year we present you only three ideas.

== Scheduling algorithm for multi-cores systems ==
 Today it is hard to imagine an effective multi-tasking system without making use of distributed computations using multiple cores and processors. For example, multimedia processing is more rational to implement using special DSP cores. Even using a few similar processor cores (SMP) allows to achieve a substantial increase in performance while the power consumption is not increased significantly. Thus effective resource distribution is an essential feature of each multi-tasking system. On the other hand resource planning in presence of multiple cores is a way more complex task than in case of single core type because synchronizing computation streams involves taking in account presence of cache, sources of interrupts and plenty more of parameters.  Hence effectiveness of planning algorithms has a great deal of influence on overall system performance.

 Within this task students are to develop multi-core scheduler algorithm and to research its performance, memory consumption and so on. 

 === Requirements ===
 The knowledge of processor architecture and assembly language, IPC and memory subsystems shall be vital for accomplishing this task.

 === Mentor ===
 Anton Bondarev (`anton.bondarev2310@gmail.com`)
----

== Configurable network subsystems for remote control system ==
 The network protocol stack plays an important role, because a lot of systems are built as distributed, when many parts communicate via network or communication to the user himself is conducted via some network protocol. Current network protocol stack realizations are packet-oriented in their commutation, which from one point of view enables them to be flexible and on the other hand disables them to be determined in processing a packet on some host. Network stack [PnetOverview pnet] is an attempt to develop a configurable network subsystem with determined, set up by user and computed on the fly route of processing the specified packet types. This enables to remotely control robots and to gain the feedback from them in the real time using just IP network.

 === Requirements ===
 This task requires knowledge of network protocol stack and understanding the principles of telecommunication.

 === Mentor ===
 Nikolay Korotky (`sikmir@gmail.com`)
----

== Build system for modular project ==
 Our project is built using a module-architecture and enables to set itself up to be utilized for a specific task. A big deal of acknowledgment for belongs to the build system which makes it easy to describe modules, set their properties and dependencies up, and fluently depicture the system on the whole and conduct the building of the system upon the declared rules. We've called that system [Mybuild], because from our point of view it makes it possible to finely describe the process of building and configuring modules not only for Embox, but for any other module-based project which require fine tuning of it's modules and the system altogether.

 === Requirements ===
 To participate in that task GNU Make knowledge and understanding of compiling and linking of modules are what you shall need.

 === Mentor ===
 Eldar Abusalimov (`eldar.abusalimov@gmail.com`)
----

= GSoC 2012 useful links =
There are several available pages with helpful information. They are:
 * [http://socghop.appspot.com/ Google Summer of Code main page]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/AdviceforStudents Advice for Students]
 * [http://socghop.appspot.com/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2012/faqs GSoC FAQ]
 * [http://socghop.appspot.com/document/show/gsoc_program/google/gsoc2012/timeline Timeline]

Please keep in mind that the deadline for applications is *April 6 19:00 UTC*.