#summary Supported platforms

Embox supports several types of processor architecture this page contains examples of real hardware platforms (boards) which Embox is supported.

== SPARC =
 * Embox supports [http://www.gaisler.com/cms/ Leon3] processor. Is is open source processor which compatible with SPARC v8 architecture. We run Embox on the [http://www.xilinx.com/products/devkits/HW-V5-ML505-UNI-G.htm Virtex-5 LXT FPGA ML505 Evaluation Platform]. More details you can get [Leon3LoadDescription here]

== DLX ==
 * Embox supports [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MicroBlaze Microblaze] processor. This processor has DLX architecture and is supported by [http://www.xilinx.com/tools/microblaze.htm Xilinx]. We run Embox on the [http://www.terraelectronica.ru/catalog_info.php?ID=1038&CODE=282158&Name=HW-SPAR3AN-SK-UNI-G&Razdel=%CE%F2%EB%E0%E4%EE%F7%ED%FB%E5%20%E8%20%EE%F6%E5%ED%EE%F7%ED%FB%E5%20%EF%EB%E0%F2%FB%20%E8%20%ED%E0%E1%EE%F0%FB%20%E4%EB%FF%20%F1%E5%EC%E5%E9%F1%F2%E2%E0%20Spartan-3A%28N%29&TableName=class_19_4_6_6_3 HW-SPAR3AN-SK-UNI-G Starter Kit]. More details [MicroblazeLoadDescription here]

== ARM ==
 * This development board contains at91sam7 controller and simple peripheral. It is very cheap and easy to development start. More details [PlatformOlimexSam7 here]
 * Embox supports [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lego_Mindstorms Lego Mindstorms NXT]. More Details [PlatformLegoNxt here]
 * This development board contains Cortex-M3 and integrated debugger. More details [PlatformStm32Discovery here]

== x86 ==
 * Embox supports PC platform the same, and it can be executed on [http://wiki.qemu.org/Main_Page QEMU]
 * Embox supports [http://sites.google.com/site/bifferboard Bifferboard]. More Details [PlatformBifferboard here]

== MIPS ==
 * Embox supports Duinomite board. More details [PlatformDuinomite here] 