#summary STM32Discovery step-by-step guide

= Introduction =

This page describes full process of getting Embox to discover board. It's assumed that you have clean Ubuntu (12.04)

 # Install eclipse 
{{{ 
$ sudo apt-get install eclipse
}}}
 # Now install C Development Toolkit for Eclipse. Launch Eclipse, go to Help -> Install New Software. In work with repositary field supply `http://download.eclipse.org/tools/cdt/releases/indigo` for 12.04's eclipse version. Note that you may have another version.
 # Due some Eclipse behaviour, you need install Main Feature, TCF and Uncategorized only at first and restart Eclipse, and only then you can continue installing CDT Optional Features.
 # Download [http://embox.googlecode.com/files/arm-none-eabi-gcc-4.6.2.tar.bz2 arm-none-eabi-gcc] and add it's location to your path. Or another reasonable way is to copy it's content to `/usr/local`.
{{{
 $ tar -zxf arm-none-eabi-gcc-4.6.2.tar.bz2
 $ sudo cp arm-none-eabi-gcc-4.6.2/* /usr/local/
}}}
 # Download and extract [http://embox.googlecode.com/files/texane-stlink.tar.bz2 stutil] (homepage: https://github.com/texane/stlink).
  # Copy `st-util` to one of directories from $PATH, e.g. `/usr/local/bin`
  # Copy it's configs to system directories. Prevent kernel's usb-storage from managing board:
{{{
# cp stlink_v1.modprobe.conf /etc/modprobe.d
# modprobe -r usb-storage && modprobe usb-storage
}}}
  And adjust rights to regular user be able run `st-util`:
{{{
# cp 49-stlinkv*.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/
# udevadm control --reload-rules
}}}
 # At this step you need Embox source snapshot. You may get it from Download section or SVN. 
 # Now manage project for Embox in Eclipse. Press File -> New -> Project ... -> General -> Project. Uncheck 'Use default location' and supply next field path to Embox source root.
 # On `Make target` select `config arm stm32vl` and `all` then.
 # Configure debug configuration. Create new one under the 'GDB Hardware debug', select `embox` as Application, on Debugger tab select GDB command: `arm-none-eabi-gdb` and connection by TCP to `localhost:4242`.
 # Run gdb server for discovery. On terminal execute `auto-st-link` from `embox-root/scripts`.
 # Now you can load Embox by pressing Debug.