#summary Where and how Embox is used?

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

Embox source code was originally developed as part of commercial projects
[http://lanit-tercom.com Lanit-Tercom Inc]. The main direction of the project
was an embedded systems. Project's code has been opened. There is an opportunity
to apply the project for training purposes. The project is now supported and
actively develops not only by [http://lanit-tercom.com Lanit-Terom Inc.], but
by the Department of System Programming of St. Petersburg State University,
as well as students from other faculties and universities.

= Commercial =

Embox currently used for 3 commercial projects.

== Bootloader ==

The project supports a network, command interpretator and other parts suitable
for your bootloader, also allows you to fine-tune the interfaces also has
compatibility with a Linux driver interface. It was used as a boot loader.
And to debug various memory device drivers.

== Hardware development ==

With flexible and customizable testing system developed by the project
developers have the equipment, including VHDL design, it is possible to create
a system of tests, (unit tests for sismulation, regression tests and integration
tests). Helps in hardware testing at very early stages of development.

== Product certification ==

As far as the complete source tree is hardly ever used for the final release,
there are special tools provided for those who need to pass the code
certification. A fine-grained modular structure allows you to extract only those
sources which are used in the final build.

= Educational =

The core development team consists of students and graduates of
[http://www.math.spbu.ru/en/index.html Saint-Petersburg State University].

== Student projects ==

[http://www.math.spbu.ru/en/chairs/dep21.html Theoretical Cybernetics department]
intrested in the project results. As a result of the partnership between
departments was robotics OS.
Now the project works on [PlatformLegoNxt Lego Mindstorms NXT] and has some
commercial advantage.

== Coursework ==

 * [http://se.math.spbu.ru/SE/YearlyProjects/2010/445/Batyukov_report.pdf/view Разработка системы тестирования программно-аппаратных комплексов (Batyukov A.M.)]
 * [http://se.math.spbu.ru/SE/YearlyProjects/2010/445/Fomin_report.doc/view Особенности open-source разработки на основе проекта “Embox” (Fomin A.D.)]

= Just for fun =

Enjoy the kernel hacking!
